---
layout: chapter
title: Show Your Work - GitHub.com
category: 4. Unfinished
---

# Show Your Work - GitHub.com

In a previous chapter, you saved your new website into github.com, and you can
from there iterate, make changes, and even roll back. This chapter talks a bit
more about Git and GitHub.

Git lets you both save, and keep track of the entire revision history - this
ends up being very useful, since you might want look at old versions of your
code, or even rollback if your code breaks and you don't know how to fix it.

## How to Push to GitHub

As another exercise, go ahead and write a bit of code like you did in the
tutorials. Use the Text Editor the book said to install earlier. Maybe you
just want to make a file called "hello_world.html."

Next:

  * **NOTICE:** In helping people with this part, we noticed on your Mac, you are going to have to do something before you can do one of the steps in the next link. Before you will be able to "git init" as the tutorial instructs, you will need to: 
    * a) follow [these instructions in this blog](http://blog.bobbyallen.me/2014/03/07/how-to-install-git-without-having-to-install-xcode-on-macosx/)
    * b) alternatively, you could install XCode (and run it once). It can be installed via the App Store, and you can use it later for iOS development. 

  * [Next, follow these instructions to get the code you just wrote on GitHub.com](https://help.github.com/articles/adding-an-existing-project-to-github-using-the-command-line/). This will be like what you did before witj GitHub.

The linked instructions tell you how to use the "command line," and I
recommend that's how you start, so you can get a really deep understanding of
th git tool. However, those instructions also link to another page, which
teaches you to use a GUI to push your code to github.com.

## Command Line Tutorial

If you get stuck trying to push your code to github.com, step back and take
thd [command line tutorial](https://www.codecademy.com/courses/learn-the-
command-line) from Codeacademy again (just repeat last chapter), which may
break the ice for you. I really suggest you struggle a bit here, and don't
just use the Github desktop GUI tool - this will stunt your growth as a
programmer.

This is also where having a mentor or friend kicks in. I've seen people get
stuck trying to push their code to github.com, and it usually just takes two
heads to muddle through any issues.

# Open Source All of Your Code

When you push to github.com, choose an "MIT" license for your code when
prompted. You'll be best served if you make your code as free and open as
possible to start - trust me, no one will steal it, and people will help you
learn if you publish your work openly.

